AMM: Add AMMDelete transaction type, update error codes (#47)
ripple/opensource.ripple.com: docs/xls-30d-amm/transaction-types/ammdelete.md

---
html: ammcreate.html
parent: transaction-types.html
blurb: Create a new Automated Market Maker for trading a given pair of assets.
labels:
  - AMM
status: not_enabled
---
# AMMDelete
[[Source]](https://github.com/gregtatcam/rippled/blob/amm-fixes/src/ripple/app/tx/impl/AMMDelee.cpp "Source")

<embed src="/snippets/_amm-disclaimer.md" />

Delete an empty [Automated Market Maker](../automated-market-makers.md) (AMM) instance that could not be fully deleted automatically.

> **Tip:** The [AMMWithdraw transaction](./ammwithdraw.md) automatically tries to delete an AMM, along with associated ledger entries such as empty trust lines, if it withdrew all the assets from the AMM's pool. However, if there are too many trust lines to the AMM account to remove in one transaction, it may stop before fully removing the AMM. Similarly, an AMMDelete transaction removes up to a maximum number of trust lines; in extreme cases, it may take several AMMDelete transactions to fully delete the trust lines and the associated AMM. In all cases, the AMM ledger entry and AMM account are deleted by the last such transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Normally, an [`AMMWithdraw` transaction](./ammwithdraw.md) automatically tries to delete an AMM and all associated ledger entries when it withdraws all the assets from the AMM's pool. However, if there are too many trust lines to the AMM account to remove in one transaction, it may stop before fully removing the AMM. Similarly, an `AMMDelete` transaction removes up to a maximum number of trust lines; in extreme cases, it may take several `AMMDelete` transactions to fully delete the trust lines and the associated AMM. In all cases, the AMM ledger entry and AMM account are deleted by the last such transaction.
```
Would it be better to specify the 512 limit?

Author: Agree, may as well put the 512 limit here. Reworded slightly more than suggested.

## Example AMMDelete JSON

```json
{
    "Account" : "rJVUeRqDFNs2xqA7ncVE6ZoAhPUoaJJSQm",
    "Asset" : {
        "currency" : "XRP"
    },
    "Asset2" : {
        "currency" : "TST",
        "issuer" : "rP9jPyP5kyvFRb6ZiRghAGw5u8SGAmU4bd"
    },
    "Fee" : "10",
    "Flags" : 0,
    "Sequence" : 9,
    "TransactionType" : "AMMDelete"
}
```

> In addition to the common fields, AMMDelete transactions use the following fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the common fields, `AMMDelete` transactions use the following fields:
```

Author: Leaving transaction type not in code font for consistency.

| Field          | JSON Type           | [Internal Type][] | Required? | Description |
|:---------------|:--------------------|:------------------|:----------|:------------|
| `Asset`        | Object              | STIssue           | Yes       | The definition for one of the assets in the AMM's pool. In JSON, this is an object with `currency` and `issuer` fields (omit `issuer` for XRP). |
| `Asset2`       | Object              | STIssue           | Yes       | The definition for the other asset in the AMM's pool. In JSON, this is an object with `currency` and `issuer` fields (omit `issuer` for XRP). |

## Error Cases

> Besides errors that can occur for all transactions, AMMCreate transactions can result in the following [transaction result codes](https://xrpl.org/transaction-results.html):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides errors that can occur for all transactions, `AMMCreate` transactions can result in the following [transaction result codes](https://xrpl.org/transaction-results.html):
```

Author: We don't put transaction types in code font elsewhere in the docs, so it would be inconsistent to start here.

| Error Code          | Description                                  |
|:--------------------|:---------------------------------------------|

> | `tecAMM_NOT_EMPTY`  | The AMM holds assets in its pools, so it cannot be deleted. If you are one of the AMM's liquidity providers, use [AMMWithdraw](./ammwithdraw.md) first. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `tecAMM_NOT_EMPTY`  | The AMM holds assets in its pools, so it cannot be deleted. If you are one of the AMM's liquidity providers, use [`AMMWithdraw`](./ammwithdraw.md) first. |
```

Author: Leaving transaction type not in code font for consistency.

> | `tecINCOMPLETE`     | There were too many associated ledger entries to fully delete, so the transaction removed as many as it could, but the AMM has not been fully deleted. You can send another AMMDelete transaction to continue and possibly finish the job. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `tecINCOMPLETE`     | There were too many associated ledger entries to fully delete, so the transaction removed as many as it could, but the AMM has not been fully deleted. You can send another `AMMDelete` transaction to continue and possibly finish the job. |
```

Author: Leaving transaction type not in code font for consistency.
